[UNCLEAR] started feeling out
something working
And from somewhere three very hefty
people, came in absolutely black in color
very hefty and tall, [UNCLEAR] and they
caught hold of them and they beat them
but they never got hurt as such and brought
them on the street and [UNCLEAR]
"Go back and never come to this side."So
they kept the [UNCLEAR] alright
[UNCLEAR - BHAAG?] and said, "What kind of
a kadak devta you have?"
Kadak means, a very strong; "Who is this Kadak
devta you worship that they beat us like this?"
So, what has happened you're so...
- My own case [UNCLEAR], I'll say
- Hmm?
- Actually, my own case
- Hmm
- [UNCLEAR]
- Hmm?
I was being attacked by a good [UNCLEAR]
and they had - wanted to kill me
and they came with sword to cut my head
in two but instead of getting my head
all my arteries here, they just got my ear.
Twice he tried; Each time just barely [UNCLEAR]
Then at that point I prayed, I said, "If
this is the time to go, then I'm prepared
but, You know, I leave my spirit into Your
hands," and at that moment everything
became very bright, I don't know how and
although they were fifteen or sixteen people,
they could not hold my hands,
they didn't have the strength;
and all of them, just walked
away from - they could not
And then, two hundred little boys
came from some school there
- That's right, two hundred children
- and they caught hold of him and took
him to the hospital and in the hospital
he had some body surgeons, who knew -
- but just was passing that way.
- This is what happened with them
two hundred children came, they took me to
the dispensary and then [UNCLEAR] sleep
in the afternoon, so they knocked on the door
and four people came out and they said,
"Shall we get an ambulance?" At that moment,
another doctor whom I knew, was passing by
he saw the crowd, came, he saw me, took me
into his car, took me to the hospital
but that was lunch time, so all the surgeons
should have been at home but by chance,
- every surgeon in the hospital was there.
- and he carried his ear, like this and put it
diagonal. He's a doctor [UNCLEAR]
and he sensed it.
It was completely cut off, there was
no blood vessels, nothing. It was just
- In India, you were where?
- In Calcutta.
Yes, in Jamshedpur. Yeah, I met
Shri Mataji here.
- And then you were [UNCLEAR]
- Yes
- You're Gujratis, are you?
- And he's also Gujrati?
- We both have [UNCLEAR] Kshatriya
- Annh?
- [UNCLEAR] Kshatriya
- So, what is your Sir name?
- Thakur
- Thakur... haan.. Kshatriyas are very
good for sahaja yog. They do very well.
- So, you came from West Africa or from
- Nahin. I'm from Ahmadabad and he's from Baroda
- Achcha!
- Can you speak Maharashtra?
- Jogian and boys they colony mein, they say, Shrivastava, Shrivastava
- and we were talking we say, Shrivastav
- Shrivastav is correct.
- Shrivastav is correct..... Shrivastav
[UNCLEAR] has learnt his Hanuman Chalisa
and asked me to type in English
- Hunh....
- Translations
- But My husband is from UP
- I see.
But Baroda, we had very good center there.
You see, they could not continue with it
because the gentleman was Veeraji -
you must have heard his name.
- I not know about anyone else.
- Oh, I see
- I'm not friendly
- He started, you see, that thing and
then he's now very sick - sick in the sense,
he's very old. His wife is also very old
so, somehow, it's not so working out
but now, Raol Bai has gone there
another sahaja yogini, who's very
powerful. She's gone there so,
she'll start again, I think, in Baroda.
Ahmadabad also, we had this..... Shodhan
- Shodhan, haan
- Shodhan bhai. He did a lot for us
but Ahmadabad, you see, people are
very materialistic, I think,
- Very materialistic!
- Extremely materialistic and
they were just bothered about
sickness or money problems
- money-minded
- Extremely money-minded and very
much worried
about money this... everybody came to
say Sarabhai, this, that because all had
these problems; I got fed up, I said,
"I'll not do now,"
you see, because you must have spiritual
hankering, isn't it - otherwise it is such
a waste of time - these people. They'll come
later on; Let us first settle down with
sahaja yogis, who are good and who are
spiritually endowed, who are spiritually strong.
Then gradually, these people will come.
Now we have a television program
and what I hear is that, thousands of people
have it. If I didn't have sahaja yogis,
it's impossible. You know, every program
I had 400-500 people and curing them
doing this but even sitting down, on the
pulpit, people were getting cured.
Just sitting down there - that's one way
you cure but still, you have to attend to them
you have to tell them. You need sahaja yogis
first, then you can attend to the masses - isn't it?
But I think, with money- mindedness in
Ahmadabad, they follow others.
If one start, and he's strong enough
sahaja yogi, then they will follow
- but one has to be strongly through.
- Hmm, no we had Shodhan bhai but Shodhan bhai
got lost because he got very sick; He also
became very old. See, but his wife and all
that are going through quite a lot and the
problem is, when people are money-minded,
you see, they get enamored by other gurus, who
take money - they sort of vie to see things
which as if could solve their money
problems. Like, they will go and ask anyone
the number of the horse, you see, sort of thing;
They like such horrible gurus and pay them
and such people prosper. Ahmadabad
has got lots of gurus - horrible it is!
- We were there until boys came
- Really?
- So many horrible gurus!
- Till that night in my house we had first
one group and that night they went to the
hills here and throw everything in the streets
- everything
- Hmm
so that's how we are saved or we are
here today in one piece
- He was Mahishasura
- Who?
- Mahishasura.
- Mahishasura - Wow! he's the worst of all.
- The worst is, he gives heart attack.
- Troubles
- So much of falsehood!
- He suffered so much.
- How?
- Except for his health and
The husband always gets it. I've seen, if the
wife is that, husband always gets it invariably
My own brother, my own brother but the
day I told him, he threw away everything.
That night, that day, I don't know, it
just came over. This little fellow and
Paul and Shailesh and Allan everything black
dustbin bag and threw everything that night.
You, you see, we must think, we don't
want diamonds, we don't want these,
only God, you see. So, this fellow is
giving diamonds, this, that and all that.
Yeah, if you are, sort of, near, you get this, if you
are, you get saris, if you are, then get diamond ring
- Only to the rich
- Yes
Only to the rich. For example, My brother,
they gave him a ring.
So, I told him, "How many you have
diamond rings?"
He said, "I don't know how many
I have. I never wear them."
- So I said, "Why did you take this?"
- He said, "Because he said it is my blessing."
I said, "But why does he give you a diamond? If he
has to give it, give it to somebody who doesn't have.
For example, your driver, if he uses this
diamond ring, it has some value."
But then you know, we discovered that My
sister-in-law was giving
unconsciously all her diamonds to him.
I believe it, I [UNCLEAR] believe
it - property, money
Say, she was just passing on to him without
knowing that she's doing it , you see.
Because they were having, they just found out that
they have lost lot of diamonds from the household
and, then she said, "Yes, I give him, I think.
I gave him this time that thing."
So, I asked her, "Why did you give?"; She's
a doctor. I said, "Why did you give?"
He said, she said, "You see, somebody tells
me all the time these are stones
why do you want to have bhoot badha?" I said,
"If he is a sanyasi, then, if these are stones to you,
it should be dust to him. Why should he
take it? Why should he take all these?"
It's all right as you are managing them and
my brother is respectable man, whatever it is
he has money and all that, as his wife, as
Grihalaxmi, you have to wear this - you are [UNCLEAR]
why for the sanyasi baba? And to take somebody
else's diamonds, what is this I think?
And they have amassed, you know, amassed
If you read about this Ganesh
Yogi - recently I read -
he has collected four thousand crores of
rupees - crores - four thousand crores.
Yeah, I have seen in front of my eyes that
if you give this much, then you get into,
you see them like that. The lady, poor
lady, who had a epileptic fit there,
really she was sick and he sitting down and
the woman volunteer, whatever they were,
they gave a slip to her, "Sit properly, sit
properly," and then baba walked like that
and that way he got sudden fit
and fell, You know he said
"Why all this? Why do you allow these people
to come in here? Get out. Take them out.
Get out of my ashram," like that.
[UNCLEAR] human. Like the [UNCLEAR]
Sometimes even you see these people give them
to threat, if they want to get rid of someone,
they can just give that face to people,
if they want.
Only thing they're ready to handle
There's no meditation, nothing, you see,
they don't talk of God or anything - nothing,
- Just nothing. I mean, it is, I don't know.
- We had to meet Mahatma in Saudi Arabia that night
and Thalin and I don't know what came
after 6000 miles distance on the telephone,
- he threw away everything
- [SHRI MATAJI LAUGHS]
- on the telephone [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- He's a thakur na
- So they say ki thakur ki ek baar khopdi
kharaab ho jaaye to [UNCLEAR]
- Thakur can take talwar
You see Thakur - Thakur is a caste, I
mean, it's a caste of great brave men,
so, once a, they say, once a rich man in
Lucknow, employed one Thakur,
you see, to protect him - very healthy man - and
they were passing through some jungles and
some dacoits invaded - sort of attacked -
and so he had about ten people who were
carrying everything, you know that he fought
all the ten people, bit them and did all
kinds of everything, hit them and all that
and after the ten were absolutely thrown on
the grounds, then this fellow, you see, thakur,
raised his mustaches and hit all of
them and threw them away.
So when they came back, the gentleman who
was his master, gave him lots of property
and gave him and said, "I'm thankful to you. You
saved my life and saved all of this and all that
but now, I cannot give him more employment,"
so they asked him, "Why not?"
He said, "Where will I get again ten
people to excite him?" [LAUGHTER]
Ten people first have to die to excite him
or to fall down on the ground then the
we were humiliate otherwise he's
very quiet. [LAUGHTER]
Even in Maharashtra these Marathas are
the ones, who are really active -
Dhumaal is a Marathi - most of them are
Marathas. [UNCLEAR] is a Maratha
- Mainly Kshatriyas do sahaja yog.
- Hmm
- [UNCLEAR] the Brahmins
- Kshatriyas are the best, you see.
And this Dhumaal is old in sahaj yoga
- very, very premature he is
But they say [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
Brahmins also because, you see, they
had so many ritualism with them.
Marathas because they are brave and
courageous, they come and settle.
Also, I think that mostly Kshatriyas
worshipped the Devi
- Haan, of course, Shakti pujari - yes
- [UNCLEAR] that is the most
And you now see, I.P. Singh is a Kshatriya
and Nagendra Singh is a Kshatriya -
- see all of them are like that.
- They are on the stem, the value of the Devi
- Kshatriyas
- are Kshatriyas.
People of [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION] Devi ko bahut maante hain
Put your hand. [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- This little Gibbs is coming, I gather, there.
- [UNCLEAR]
and she finds very difficult because
of the ...
You all put your left hand towards Me,
right hand outside - right hand outside
and watch Me. Put both the feet on
the ground, straight.
Have you worked out anything about the
diseases you want to tackle? [UNCLEAR] Gavin?
- Lots of them Shri Mataji.
- Annh?
- They're quite a few
- Quite a few - and you've done the list.
- Tell the ones that have been requested.
- Tomorrow I'll be absolutely free the whole day
- Yes, Shri Mataji.
- Do you think tomorrow the whole day I should
give it to you?
- I'm absolutely free because CP's out.
- Sure, Shri Mataji!
- Annh?
- Thank You. Yeah.
But we have to do something about it, you
see, because now we have to face so many
Better? How is it? Come here. Come here,
just come. Take out your coat.
One bigsome disease is Shri Mataji, is
all these mental illnessnesses.
Na, na left side attack [UNCLEAR]
now turn around.
- They're big problem.
- Now left side - you see now. Put it, go further.
For that all the left sided problems should be solved with a candle or light or fire.
Anything that is light, see, is against them
- fire on the left side
Now this one also has a left side problem.
So, what do you have to do
- is to raise his right.
- Left
Now see, you raise his right. Be careful
about the - also watch the flame -
flame will indicate to you.
Now put it to the left
Left Swadhishthana
Really, it is coming out - feel it. All
the pressure on the void is released.
- Hunh
- and the heart [UNCLEAR]
That's the Jagdamba place because he's
[UNCLEAR] chaturya, you see.
Now, for him now, what is the first
problem, is the void.
Void problem is there because he had a
wrong guru, you see.
Because it is on the left hand side, he should
put his right hand towards the left hand side.
- Put his right hand towards the left hand side.
- Hmm
I saw some photographs, Shri Mataji, of this
Mahishasur, where he puts his photograph
- inside the Lingam of Lord Shiva.
- Hmm, so?
- Mahishasur
- Oh!
There's a photograph where there's a Lingam, of
Shiva's Lingam and he put his photograph inside it
That's how he reached the heart. Now put,
no, I'm saying, now put your
- this is your left hand - this side - that's
your right hand - alright?
This Lingam is given by Mahishasur to
his father and he worships it everyday
- Baap re!
- from 3 0'clock in the morning till 10 at night
- [UNCLEAR] in the house.
- Ab Rustom dekho? Ab inka shuru - behavior very aggressive
- Joy comes up to Vishuddhi petal but Vishuddhi
- But Vishuddhi is blocked very much.
- Right?
- Center, Mother. Center is blocked very much
- Sushumna is blocked just below the Vishuddhi
- He never said Vishuddhi. He has said mantra?
- Hmm, already it's clearing
- Hmm, the whole thing heart now - right heart
But basically - you see this one -
now where did you put your? Haan
- Now you say, "Mother, I am my own guru."
- Mother, I am my own guru.
- Again
- Mother, I am my own guru
- Unh,
- Much better
- what - cleared out
- Even Vishuddhi blocked
Now see - [HINDI - aap aage aakar ke inki
theek se] - He's with Mahishasura also,
the main thing is, the heart is
catching - center heart. Now, who do you pray?
You should say, "Jagdamba, Jagdamba,
Jagdamba - Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham
Saakshat Jagdamba,
Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat Jagdamba,
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba,
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat Jagdamba
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba."
- Much better.
- Yeah
Now, hold the Vishuddhi. Now it will be
more Left Vishuddhi because of his mantra
So, "Aham Saakshat Sarvamantrasiddhi,
Aham Saakshat Sarvamantrasiddhi,
Aham Saakshat Sarvamantrasiddhi, Aham
Saakshat Sarvamantrasiddhi,
Aham Saakshat Vishnumaya, Aham Saakshat
Vishnumaya, Aham Saakshat Vishnumaya,
Saakshat Vishnumaya, Aham Saakshat
Vishnumaya. Aane laga. Now, what is it?
Eight times Vishnumaya and eight times
Mantra Siddhi will work out.
Alright? Better now? Much better. Now,
Agnya - left Agnya will be always there -
Aham Saakshat MahaGanesha, Maha Bhairava,
Aham Saakshat MahaGanesha, Maha Bhairava
Aham Saakshat Mahaganesha, Maha
Bhairava, Saakshat MahaGanesha.
Here you'll find people getting blind, you
see. When they are blind just ask them
to put one light in front and one light
at the back - just give it a bandhan -
Saakshat MahaGanesha, Maha Bhairava, Aham
Saakshat MahaGanesha, Maha Bhairava -
At this point even you can say - "Aham Saakshat
Mahishasur Mardini, Aham Saakshat Mahisha,"
At the Sahastrara you can say, "Saakshat
Mahishasur Mardini, Aham Saakshat
Mahishasur Mardini,
Saakshat Mahishasur Mardini,
Aham Saakshat Mahishasur Mardini,
Aham Saakshat, anh - it's there!
Aham Saakshat Moksh Dayini, Aham Saakshat
Moksh Dayini, Aham Saakshat Moksh Dayini,
Saakshat Moksh Dayini, Aham Saakshat
Aham Saakshat Moksh Dayini - alright?
[LAUGHTER]
- There! [UNCLEAR]
- Very easy Kundalini [UNCLEAR] Mother
Very simple! Because you are realized souls
now - all the mantras are jagrut in you -
everything is jagrut; Whatever you say,
is the Truth with [UNCLEAR - OTHER?] meaning.
- See, it's cleared out now.
- Put yourself into bandhan, that's all.
Now don't feel guilty; That's one thing
you people don't do - is to feel guilty.
You are facing Me; What is there
to feel guilty?
- Now let's ....
- He's a very ....
- Alright, sit down.
- He's suffered, he had suffered from asthma
- and very bad chest trouble.
- That's because of his father
Now, hold your breath. Now, asthma -
hold your breath.
Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat Jagdamba,
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat Jagdamba
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat
Jagdamba, Saakshat Jagdamba,
Aham Saakshat Jagdamba, Saakshat Jagdamba
- Haan, done. Now, hold your ...
now, for asthma best thing is, to put
bracket Jagdamba and Shri Rama together
Aham Saakshat Shri Ram Jagdamba,
Shri Ram Jagdamba, Aham Saakshat -
now you can just say, Nirmal, Nirmal Shri
Aham Saakshat Nirmal Ram, Aham Saakshat
Nirmal Ram, Aham Saakshat Nirmal Ram,
Aham Saakshat - cleaned out -
are you alright?
- Breathing is alright now?
- Yes, Mother.
Just a, just a weak mind - I'll say, say sit
down, sit down that facing that side.
He's gone out na - little
bit. He's not feeling it but it's here.
- Haan
- Haan, that's it.
Now - Aham Saakshat Nirmal MahaGanesha,
Aham Saakshat Nirmal MahaGanesha
Aham Saakshat Nirmal MahaGanesha,
Saakshat Nirmal MahaGanesha
Aham Saakshat Nirmal MahaGanesha
Aham Saakshat - done.
Now you can say, "Aham Saakshat
Mokshdayini, Aham Saakshat Mokshdayini,
Aham Saakshat Mokshdayini,
Aham Saakshat Mokshdayini." For Me,
even once, it's alright to say but you all
- should say seven times - understand.
- This is the, actually where the both void are catching
- Annh?
- [UNCLEAR] yeah
- What's it?
- Both of them, they. It's all get's matching
Coming from there, hain - so put it down.
That's the way, to Mahakali.
This is Mahakali's mantra - Aham Saakshat
Mahakali, Aham Saakshat Mahakali,
- Aham Saakshat Mahakali
- Hunh, hunh
What you [UNCLEAR - CALL?]
Arre Mahakali to idhar bhi aana chahiye -
yeh thode na left main hi - left hai - sorry
Aham Saakshat Mahakali. [UNCLEAR] Inko
liver bhi hai. He has both the sides.
- Haan, that's true
- That's why
He's a staunch religious person from the
childhood and he has picked up all wrong gurus.
- Who? [UNCLEAR] got the right heart
- So, it needs a clearing
- I'll do it
- [UNCLEAR]
- It breaks these candles.
- Yes, it's alright. It [UNCLEAR]
- Achcha.
My nephew has just gone to W Inter School,
Mother.
- Who?
- My nephew. He's at celebrity School.
- Oh, Columbus, St. Columbus - is a boarder?
- Boarder
- That's who's son?
- My cousin sister - the one who is a dentist,
- who came on [UNCLEAR]
- Oh!
Now, let's bring [UNCLEAR] this thing
down, alright. So, what we'll do is to -
Aham Saakshat Mahakali, Aham Saakshat -
you see because of My - I don't have to
wait for My right, left or [UNCLEAR] -
Saakshat Mahakali
Ab Swadhishthan pe jaake Mahakali
- Left Swadhishthan, I think - that is all I feel
- Actually, he's got it from his father
because his father has a heart, you see, so
he's indicating. If the father has a heart,
the child gets this because the father's
side na, mother's side. Haan!
Actually, it's his [UNCLEAR] as the
left Swadhishthana is sucking it
- Hunh?
- The left Swadhishthana is sucking the problem all the while.
Isliye left Swadhishthan pe rakhna chahiye
Give it a bandhan aur keep thoda right - light.
Keep it in such a way, even if you don't
have, you can keep the photograph.
- Coming out
- [INAUDIBLE]
It's better to have it there than to have
it [UNCLEAR]
- Chota hai shayad
- Isko down karne se Shri Mataji
- Hain? Down kar [UNCLEAR] issiliye
I think [UNCLEAR] to left
So all the permutations and combinations
of left side it has tried.
Agar left side ka simple; First of all, any
left side - right to the left. [UNCLEAR]
Then you have to see if it is Swadhishthana
- work out the problem but Mooladhara
combination is the worst of all like Multiple
Sclerosis in Mooladhara. The lady was sitting
I just lit the candle and there was a
little gap between her chin -
and she couldn't lift her legs, you see and I
gave a bandhan thrice to her Mooladhara -
and she lifted her both the legs. Can you
imagine - she lifted her both the legs.
- Multiple Sclerosis.
- Left is very subtle because it will shift around the body.
No but easier because of this - fire
is the best for this - fire pe bitha do -
fire is the best. Fire pe aisa nikalta
ha bas poocho - haan
[UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
When I was working in this mental hospital,
they used to be very upset because I used to
burn a diya in front of Your photograph. Three or
four times they tried to stop me doing that.
That's the problem. [UNCLEAR] rose really a child.
Terren's child had some sort of a disease also
because Terrence went there - naturally,
if Terrence moves as you and you see,
she went with a hospital. They said, "You have
to put Mother's photograph and everything."
They refused, the doctors refused the
photograph; This is so subtle, I mean. They said,
"You see, it might be contaminated or this
and that and all that and see, I think,
you better and all that."
- Which hospital? Breach Candy?
- Yes
- Naturally
- Stupid!
- If they [UNCLEAR]
But one nurse in that Breach
Candy, knows about Me
and she sent so many patients to Me. Are
you alright now? How are you feeling?
Light? Just see him. What is this
coming out of your head? In front
- Nothing
- Is it?
- Not coming in [UNCLEAR] not yet [UNCLEAR]
- Not coming truly.
It's coming but this he had a tall region
of [UNCLEAR] like that [UNCLEAR]
- What is that?
- Ekadasha
- Hmm
- Hun, haan it's opening out
- It's opened
Turn round this way.
Better! But in his case the right
side is weak.
He has liver also, his liver also.
- Gujrati logon mein liver bahut hota hai.
- Hmm
kyonki farsand, warsand bahut khate
hain na - yeh kam karna chahiye.
- Oily
- Haan oily, bahut khana hota hai oily
aur doosra yeh bhi baat hai apart
from oily, they think too much.
Even the women, I've seen, they think
they can plan - aaj ye khana banayeinge,
yeh aaj kareinge - everyday, see, they are busy
with thinking too much. Inka liver aise hi
kharaab jaldi hota hai
and thirdly, I think, this [UNCLEAR]
ka tel; That's the worst of all.
- Which?
- [UNCLEAR]
- What's that?
- Peanut oil
That's the worst thing because that
gives you leucoderma also.
Issiliye aap dekhein ki Gujarati mein
bahut leucoderma hota hai.
Know that disease of leucoderma that is
because of this tilli ka tel -
absolutely, in the worst is peanuts
[UNCLEAR]. We never had peanuts in India.
There's no word for peanuts in Sanskrit language.
It came from actually from the Gibraltar.
- Arabs, probably
- Annh?
- Nahin, Arabs
- Maybe Arabs
- This son was born in Dublin
- Where?
- In Dublin - Ireland.
- Achcha
- This in India
- India? There's no difference
- Nice.
- But thoda hota hai. Isko, what is the
month he was born?
- February
- What date?
- 28th February - Pisces
- Pisces
Pisces ashirwad hote hain bahut.
Issilie Mera cusp hai.
- Cusp haan. Cusp [UNCLEAR]
- Aquarius and Pisces they'll meet [UNCLEAR]
- When was he born?
- 31st of March
- Aries
- Hmm, Aries
- Aries, Pisces
- [UNCLEAR]
- You are Aries, Mother?
I don't know. They say, I've born
at zero point
because 21st March and at 12 0'clock
in the daytime.
- I've done Your horoscope, Shri Mataji.
- Achcha!
- It is .....
- Most interesting, lovely shape
- I cannot describe it even
- Very regular
- Everything is so [UNCLEAR]
- Very solemn!
- You cannot describe it.
That's what he said also - Chaudhary,
who did it in New [UNCLEAR]
- Yes, very interesting!
- Most balanced thing because the
center of India, center of this and all
that. Has to be, has to be balanced.
When I have to balance the whole world,
I have to be balanced Myself
but the way it has been assumed, you see,
because, you see, others were born - all of them,
at a point where there was some sort of an
imbalance and they came to balance it, sort of thing
but Mine is at the balance point to
balance the whole world.
But it is not in this horoscope -
it is impossible to analyze it because
everything is so inter-related that if
you try and analyze it, you will be going
I mean, re-valuing just something that's negative
- is that [UNCLEAR]
Good! Are they alright now? Good. Let's
see doctor sahab. Aayiye.
Yahan to Gujarati's are doing nothing
for sahaj yog. You see Flash -
there's the one who have Flash magazine.
They published so much thing about
sahaja yog and all that - nobody; These
Gujaratis don't [UNCLEAR -WANT?]
I wish, Mother, I could come and live in
London - I was just telling him in the planes.
This year we were going to combine me and this
one and I said to him, "We haven't bought the house
in Dublin, let's buy or live in London. At least,
I'll see people, our people and do something.
- Dublin is very isolated, very gloomy.
- Nai but now you have done a job in Dublin - that's good.
- You establish it well when you come now.
- [UNCLEAR] is the one.
- You should give him full credit for - I'm not
- The way he met [UNCLEAR]
I really remarked, the way you met these
boys. Where did you meet them? In the
- Arre, the saddest part is
- No, the funniest part is that [UNCLEAR]
- funny one man, brought me to the meeting.
- [UNCLEAR] how did he bring?
- You know, he isn't admitting [UNCLEAR]
- Any guru comes, that good guru.
So he said, "Why don't you [UNCLEAR]?
I said, "No, I don't want to."
"No, go, go." So I said, "Okay, I'll go." I said,
and "Look it comes [UNCLEAR] will be there."
So, I said, "I'd like to meet Paul." So I
said, "I'm talking to Paul [UNCLEAR]
- Who spoke there?
- John. But I didn't even hear a talk, Mother.
I know, I heard, all I heard was the way and
he said, "Sit down. Put your hands towards Me.
- Did you feel anything?"
- Really?
First my effort nothing but when I went
home then I got up at 3 in the morning
and I was up because my hands, my feet
and my head were just hot - I mean,
I was sweating there and then and I
couldn't sleep and I was sweating and
I was in the next day, I went to the
meeting and I said, "Can I see Paul
on his own on Fridays?" He said, "Yes, come
along," and I spent the whole day with him
and stayed and I was. I didn't want to give
up the Paul one and I said, "No but this and that."
but Paul just said, "Listen, listen [UNCLEAR],
he's very bad, give him up."
- Then he came to the session
- Then, then Saturday he came and I was [UNCLEAR]
decided it was too much. I mean, then I suddenly,
end began to dawn I might realize
what's happening, in my realization even -
materially vibrations in a way - let's see
- And one day the whole house became
- and one day the whole house is clean
- In our house they came and
- hmm, but it was too much [UNCLEAR]
He must be a real seeker, you see.
Normally, it's difficult to [UNCLEAR] horrible fellow
[UNCLEAR] the law is very good. They
won't let me sleep in my own room.
Paul put a kumkum, Swastika, almost
everything. I said, "I'll be okay,"
So they gave me a fancy photograph
of Mataji [UNCLEAR] and I [UNCLEAR]
[UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- The whole house was different, totally different.
- There was no dirt in my house, there was no dust
- Mother, we feel that
- [UNCLEAR] dust
like somebody had put vacuum all over.
- like marks. I said [UNCLEAR]
- Your Mother's drum is that na - Her name is that.
All vacuum cleaner - a very big one
Know na - that's true
But you see this, you must have been
impressed also by them, you see.
You see because they are English people.
They know so much about your culture.
Also, it's not possible; If you are not realized,
you can't talk to them anything about anything.
If there are Indians, you can't talk to
them about Christ; If they are English,
you can't talk to them about Ganesha -
it's like that - it's such a barrier
but after realization you see, how
homogeneous these all thing works out!
How they understands! Very sweet
children, you know.
You can see from their life how these are
sweet and balanced they are!
This [UNCLEAR] must have told you.
He was a punkrop
- He, he himself told us.
- He told this [UNCLEAR]
- You see, everyone had different chat with me
- Hmm
We cooked, I cooked, we ate and we go out. At
12 0'clock after the [UNCLEAR] we went to the mountains
- Moon and mountains
- [UNCLEAR]
You know, so we did everything and I talk
each boy different time and they all told us
- Allen was great he told [UNCLEAR]
- Allen told [UNCLEAR]
that kumkum, who You are and he told who
Mahishasur baba is Mahishasur and Doug
- couldn't of course come up so can't just
- Like them
"He's this, he [UNCLEAR] this, I want
this, [UNCLEAR] do this," all this and
- Douglas couldn't take it, he couldn't take it.
- Allen and Douglas
- Even when he was shaking
- You know he was shaking and
he couldn't, he just couldn't talk - he just
but, but, but - that's what but, but but
but, but. Almost he can't, he came inside
the house this Sunday but [UNCLEAR]
and he Ye Bible, I Bible, lastly he came
in but he could such a word by [UNCLEAR]
but I didn't know what to answer to him
[UNCLEAR]. I put word,
I explained to him what he has today
but still no word is there.
Everyday I come home from college
[UNCLEAR]. So everyday I come [UNCLEAR]
- but they'll go
- He doesn't know our agent [LAUGHTER]
Such a, such a way to speak for that, age 61.
When you are that age, then you are doctor,
then you are psychologist and you believe
in God but you believe is this Mahishasur
that doesn't mean everyone has to follow
and question answer you did with this
another doctor
who is not his age but he should acted his age.
You know you should tell him really, "Best
thing would be that it is that is how we
see everybody -
that everybody is an agent but this is
something new." You see, it's like
guru shopping going on, you see. You go
to this shop and that shop
but this is a temple where you enter. This
is a temple - you tell him.
You see now they have started another type
of a propaganda. Sometimes they say,
"She doesn't need any money,"
but why do you need money?
What do these people need money - parasites.
Money is not the point, it's not the point.
Actually, it's much deeper than that.
Money, of course they are, naturally
because they're so base and gross that they're
interested in your money and all these
nonsensical things. That is obvious but
the worse thing they do is to make you
so much debased that you are possessed,
you see. They are possessed -
- I mean, what is your situation?
- They took our 500 at the moment and
- [UNCLEAR]
- We put our money to buy this house with Arvind
I so much [UNCLEAR]. I didn't even say yes. I only said to him, we said to him,
"Listen, you want the deal to be over, you
don't want to have. If we buy the house,
we will make it into a sahaja yoga center and
we told you this." You know we said that.
So he said, "We'll send some and nothing
happened and the lawyer said [UNCLEAR],"
so I said, I told that, "I want all of our money
back. None of that should belong to anybody.
We lost, we worked for, we deserve
that money."
So the lawyer said, "Give him back,"
and [UNCLEAR] said,
"He'll give you back 1500." So I still stuck
to the point that I want back so, next day
he book it for 1500 and I said, "Okay, I'll settle
it up. Okay." Then he comes to the house
and he says, "It was all because of me I gave you
check of all the money but the lawyer said that
- we can't get you it all back because it's
not customary."
- Which lawyer said?
- It is not what - custom?
- It's not customary. The lawyer said
it's in your interest to keep it so Douglas and
I had to keep and I had to kind of, say no,
so my father said, "[UNCLEAR] we say yes
to the lawyer but you give me 3000 pounds
in May or come to the Hudson David.
[UNCLEAR] but this [UNCLEAR]
But, but why, why did you give
this money to him?
You see, as I said Mataji, that man, that
man working in psychiatric
or with this Mahishasur, with whom we
visit every year
he has this power to hypnotize or
mesmerism - something. When he says,
you can't deny it. He says, "If this is
best, good for you," when he wants it,
otherwise he says, "It's not, it's not good
for you because, you see, it's bad for you."
- He has taken over complete me and him.
- He's very certain he's is mind control.
You come inside the room and he'll pick up
all the tension that will belong to him
and you work on it that way, so he's always at the
center of everything and you're little break [UNCLEAR]
- So he asked for the money?
- Yeah, he said to buy the house and
the way things are moving and my
husband in spur of the moment, say
"Yes, that's the best idea. We'll buy your
house," which was the whole house -
now he's divided; Half he's going to build
his surgery - that doesn't belong to us.
Half remain here, "I'll work there, I'll live
there as a ready made secretary who's smart,
take the phone messages because phone is
their name, put Dr. Thakur's name out," -
because his doctor and his practice he
will lose, when he lives somewhere else.
- Haan
- He's got all planned out from last Christmas
and then he put us all in like that so I paid
in July before going to Saudi. From London
I went back to Dublin to sign the contract.
Then from Saudi, we almost ran to say,
"We don't want house, please dis
close." "O, yes, yes." When I came back,
he said, "No, no, no keep the house." He
told him, "Don't move out of house.
Stay with your mother she needs you and
she'll save the money that way."
One day, "Move out," next day, "Don't move
out," one day, "Do this, don't do that."
- You see [UNCLEAR]
- and then he is so low Mataji -
The influence on Jyoti he said, "Dhatt"
those things started to happen and then
Sahaja yoga came to Dublin. He said in
front of Jogin, "Well, buy the house,"
I said, "We can't afford, we don't want to."
He said, "Give me your car," "I can't,
I don't want to."
"Okay, you have insurance - haven't you?" and I
said, "What?" He said, "If anything happens to him,
you can get insurance money and you'll
be okay," See, the mentality of the man!
- It's disgusting!
- A Gujarati woman that I am born, to tell
me that, I mean, I said, "No.. way, please
leave, I don't want to talk about it,"
but I couldn't say - [UNCLEAR] when Jogin
said, "Get out," I couldn't bring out
but I have nothing to do with the man who
goes that down, "Okay, if anything happens,
- you have insurance."
- He's just, he's an embodiment of evil.
- He's an evil disciple, just evil!
- Just imagine! How could he say such a thing!
What's worse, he's a psychiatrist
and a doctor.
He's doing to people, weak people
who lean upon him.
I mean, he doesn't understand even, really
the [UNCLEAR] India talk like this.
- He'll be alright.
- I think, Vishudhhi is not really [UNCLEAR]
Left. So just now you'll be in the same
house or [UNCLEAR]?
No, we have rented the house from 16th of
September and we have moved in that
rented house.
Nice big house. We don't know Mataji
where we will be [UNCLEAR] this fellow
is in Saudi Arab.
- There you are doing Medicine?
- Yes, Trinity College and this
The things he has written if any body
reads, I mean, just, I mean, see one
sentence I must read it out to you
which you'll be happy to know - I don't
know so many complications of course,
this with that and that house with
that and this and.
Serious life of course is very [UNCLEAR]
one [LAUGHTER]
I hope he started feeling what he
was [UNCLEAR]
You are still made to be sahaja yogi
- that's alright but
yeah, something like Jupiter,
you see, that
the trouble is, everything seems to be
in it's house - see - this I can't understand
how it is happening like this that Lord is in
the house of the [UNCLEAR] he's going on.
Achcha, the aspect of strong Jupiter -
Lord of ten, from an Aries sign, on the
intellectual planet - Mercury - [UNCLEAR]
I think. Lord and Sub Lord of lagna -
- Lagna is [UNCLEAR] ascendance
- Haan, Lagna Aapki hai Cancer
- but Lord and sub-lord of lagna
- Yeh kya hai - because it's Kero system
I know this chat chanting, called
Krishnamurthy system
- Hunh - Krishnamurthy padyati
- Haan. He divides each house into 7 or 9 parts
- Hunh
- and each part is ruled by a certain planet.
So, if Your lagna, so according to
him Your lagna,
- is in width 1, I think, according to him, I suppose.
- Jupiter?
and in that part it might be ruled
by Mercury also
- the Lord and the Sub-Lord of the Lagna
- I don't know, whatever it is
- It's so complicated
- So, I can't understand this language, you see
Lagna and also on Lagna [UNCLEAR] is seen.
On the intellectual planet Mercury,
Lord and sub-lord of lagna and also on
lagna and the Moon, clearly indicates
true wisdom, beyond mere human intellect
and intuition of a very high order;
Intuition I don't have at all. I mean, whatever
I have, I have - it's no intuition, you see.
[UNCLEAR] I see that. What is there to have
intuition? I don't know - whatever they call it.
May not be the word for that in our
language, you see.
In Hindi language, whatever I have,
what will you call that - intuition?
I mean, I know clearly everything and
it is there, you see.
- It's not intuition, it's perception, I feel
- This is the perception, you can say.
- Insight - more insight
- Annh? More than insight, My intuition
is My perception because then, you are a
third person to do that but if you are that,
- then what is it?
- [UNCLEAR] is chitta
- Annh?
- Chitta
Chitta is there - achcha. The Holy Mother
[UNCLEAR] is said so. The Holy Mother is in the
Knowledge beyond human comprehension -
knowledge of the Infinite, of Divine Incarnation
- for everything else.
- Hmm.
Yeh baat sahi hai. This is the path, you see
but I don't know how you should say that.
You see because, I mean, to Me it
is such a common sense
but logically you should arrive at
that point. To Me, it is like
can't understand, how you don't
arrive at it logically with all your intellect.
But to Me, it's not intelligence, I must
say, because intelligence you have to use to
find it out but it's already there - for Me, it's
found. Like this is red color, in the same way,
- everything is for Me that way.
- Mother, they all come from You, na.
It is like the waves start, You know. The wave
just sink at the center. You are the Self.
That's why. So all sorts of things like
this he says. Now, let's see how Gemini.
The ascendance falls in Gemini even by Mercury.
That is to say, in the star of Rahu
and in the sub of Saturn - the Sub Lord Saturn
as Lord of 9, is posited in a friendly sign Virgo,
in the star of Mars. Lord of 11 is
aspecting lagna powerful [UNCLEAR]
- Actually Shri Mataji
- What is Gemini here, let's see where is Gemini?
Gemini is lagna, according to him but
according to English system Your lagna is Cancer.
- Ascendant falls in Gemini.
- The ascendant is lagna.
Should we say Your lagna is in Gemini but
that is not true Shri Mataji.
Ascendant falls in, ascendant falls in
Gemini owned by Mercury.
- Hmm. The ruler of Gemini is Mercury.
- No, I could be, why not?
- Ascendance Gemini is [UNCLEAR]
- But it isn't Shri Mataji.
- We have calculated it here.
- Achcha.
- Your ascendant is Cancer - very clearly.
- Nahin par, you see, for Me, even if I am
Gemini or anything, makes no difference because,
you see, if Gemini means the double thing,
you see. I can, I am in a double; Mahamaya
is from Gemini only. You see,
- Mahamaya Swaroopini comes from Gemini only.
- That is true. You see, there are two, You see
there are two systems they have Shri Mataji.
One is, English system and one Indian system
Even with this Gemini, it means I'm
a Mahamaya - nothing else.
- But that that means Your lagnesh is Buddha
- It's [UNCLEAR]
So that means You are ruled by
lagnesh of Brahmadeva.
[UNCLEAR] lagnesh is Buddha - Mercury.
But according to the English system Your
lagnesh is the Moon.
- Annh?
- By English system, Shri Mataji,
- Aapki lagnesh is the Moon - Chandra.
- Achcha!
- but Your Lord
- Mercury, that is to say, in the star of Rahu
- and in the sub of Saturn
- Hmm
Isme teen cheezein hain [There are three
things in that] - Mercury, Rahu aur Saturn
- It's too ....
- Rahu is feminine
- Rahu is feminine? And Ketu?
- And Ketu... Ketu aur Mercury side pe
side hain samajh lo.
- Rahu is Kundalini - no doubt
- And Ketu is which side?
- 'Ra' is energy - Rahu
- And Ketu will be Sahastrar mein [UNCLEAR]
- You can put it at Sahastra also
- Ketu could be atman or something like that?
Ketu - Atma to agnya pe maana jaata hai waise.
Agnya par Atma ka - ki Spirit Christ hai, theek hai
Agnya pe maana jaata hai. You
touch Spirit at the Agnya here first.
- Yes.
- Issiliye ye Sadashiv ka sthan hai.
- Spirit yahan hai aisa hai agya par.
- [UNCLEAR] Ketu, Rahu and Ketu -
according to some traditions, Rahu is an aspect
of Shri Krishna and Ketu of Shri Ganesha.
- they say but I don't know how correct that is.
- Rahu - Rahu should be Kundalini, I think
- Ra-hu
- and Ketu?
- Ketu could be [UNCLEAR] star
Sadashiv, yes [UNCLEAR] it's always there and
the two, the combination of the two, are
really important.
Achcha, let us see. Isme koi baat
nahin likhi but you both [UNCLEAR]
[UNCLEAR] is the story about how
Rahu and Ketu is formed.
No, Lord of the lagna is Rahu in My case -
Rahu, the star Lord of lagna.
Star lord - haan, that is different Shri
Mataji. There's two systems, You see.
I know, I spoke to Tauji at great length - I know
his style and first you have the lagnesh
- Hmm
- and then within the lagna, within the
rashi of lagna,
You have star, star - kya - how do you
say - tara, tare shubh [UNCLEAR]
- Hmm
- and though Aapka lagnesh hai Budh hai
- but taresh hai Rahu
- Rahu hai aur Sun hai
[UNCLEAR] system is very complicated
- I can't follow [UNCLEAR]
Haan Sun - Sun dekhiye Atmakareka -
Sun is Atmakarek.
- That is atma
- Atmakareka - yeh atma ko pahunchata hai - Agnya
One thing that is very clear in Your horoscope is
that the Sun is in the real Heaven of the horoscope
and everything comes from there. You
remember, beautiful [UNCLEAR]
- Hmm, Atma har
- [UNCLEAR]
Sun gives you the Atma - Atmakarek.
Achcha, find out
Ketu kya hai isme se abhi
- batao Ketu kya hai?
I think, Rahu should be that, Kundalini.
Haan, Rahu represents the Kundalini
- Decided
- Haan, or the serpent power in the human body
Wah, it's Atma gyan and Ketu kya
hai Shri Mataji?
Ketu is the [UNCLEAR]
You see, according to that padhyati, whatever
it is, I must say, it's a very deep thing - no doubt
- because according to that thing,
- Is it?
Haan, it's written, it is the storehouse
of actually Divine knowledge and arises
and manifests to perform it's functions
at the whim of Bhagwati
but only at the appropriate time according
to the karma of the individual.
This has been verified through Ketu
[UNCLEAR] cases; Means, it's only through the
Bhagwati's krupa it is done
otherwise not.
Alright, let's see. Iska, why I was saying this,
that also the sicknesses come from this.
Astrological problems, you see - sicknesses
come from astrological problems.
So, let us divide people into three gunas, first
of all. So we have got left, right and the center.
So, the left are the people who are,
they're called tamasik but actually,
are the people who desire more, act less
and those who have got cough as their,
- as their - cough ko kya kehte hain?
- Phlegm
- Phlegmatic
They're phlegmatic. So the right side
people, are the people who are overactive,
mentally alert, futuristic and also have
got these, what you call, bile - bilious
- called as [UNCLEAR] in English
- biliousness. The central ones, are the people
who have got [UNCLEAR - BILE'S OR WISE?]
attitude towards life,
not competitive by nature, seeking, deeper
not lethargic idea but seeking,
you can say like that.
Now, these people are suffered from
gas - wind, wind and gas troubles
issliye, chana is the best.Chana is the best
for them; Chana to bilkul swargic cheez hai.
Achcha, so let us talk three things over
here. Then from triguna you can divide them
into according to the chakras. So we have
21 type of people, we can say
but two more I'll add, is the swing and the
mood - see, so we have 27 types of people.
- Seven
- comes to 21 plus 2, twenty three.
- two nahin - two ke bhi to honge na - three
- Sun, Moon is one of the seven chakras
- Sun, Moon ke bhi trigun ho sakte hain
- Achcha! So six - twenty one plus six -
twenty seven - theek - so
So, Sun, Moon se ek aspect aur ho jaata hai.
There's another aspect with it with Sun and Moon
but people who have more Moon in them,
are inactive in the organ.
We may say, a liver patient is there -
take an example - liver patient;
So there is one cold liver and there's a
hot liver - see the combination.
So the liver, if, even if it is showing a liver,
[UNCLEAR] it could be a cold liver or
could be a hot liver.
So if it is a cold liver, then, maybe it
might show on the left Swadhishthan.
- Cold liver?
- Cold liver - left Swadhishthana and left
Nabhi could be cold liver
- That is a classic.
- Left Swadhishthana and Left Nabhi could
create cold liver
So, most of the allergies come to us, if
they had, from there but from Swadhishthana
and Nabhi combination - left combination
- it comes, means Swadhishthana is
all unauthorized
so we can say, from viruses or - same
sort of a thing like that -
means to the cold liver side into that.
Psychologists have no issues from this.
Is a horrible fish sadhna they are making
for sadhna. [UNCLEAR] Let's close this door.
- Great speciality now - it's passing.
- Haan, passing and also, you see,
- Sadhna wanted Me today
because daddy is not there
- Achcha.
Daddy doesn't like the smell in the
house. Just close the door. I'm sorry.
- Thanks
- Horrible smell it is in that bag
Sadhna is going away so she said. So, cold
liver - is it too much?
- No, this one is
- Otherwise for some people it is an appetizer.
- Yes. For us it is.
- Try - so, but for others they are
incapable of but you can have.
So now, they have cold liver or hot liver
depending on the position of the Moon
and the Sun. So the whole activity or
inactivity actually is done by these two.
- By Sun or Moon.
If it is inacting, also there is disease,
if it is acting, there is also disease.
You can have both - activity and
inactivity - in which concern?
- Here you can't
- That you can't
- Normally you can't
- One is very active then some
- Yeh nahin ho sakta
but maybe, as a result of over-activity,
it can go out of order completely
and then it will become absolutely inactive
- aisa ho sakta hai - ki at a later stage.
Say person, who is very active, running up and
down, hain, then suddenly he becomes lethargic,
you see,
he's so tired - that can happen to a person -
so, a person who has a very active liver,
can develop a very inactive liver or who has an
inactive liver, can always become active liver.
So, then it can be a change from one to
another but both cannot live simultaneously.
- Haan, that's right, Shri Mataji.
- But why didn't they send some tea because
tea would be good?
But what I said, now, You say some emotion
Mataji, does it mean where they're
placed in the kundali, whether they are placed in the lagna. So they say, normal
the Sun and the Moon is on the lagna
[UNCLEAR] that is a very far fetched position.
- [UNCLEAR] astrologer said so
- Achcha, he was just dealing with tatwa
Tatwas. Let us go to the tatwas, you see.
Main thing is the tatwa and you can see
in the body of a person, you see. A person,
who's very thin, say, who doesn't put
on weight and all that,
definitely is on the right side. A person, who
is fat, puts on weight easily, is on the left side -
is a general, general way you can see. In the
same time, you will be more on the fatter side,
no doubt, because gas - vaat bhi mota karta
hai - but such a person will be light, you see
- Not heavy
- Not heavy, not heavy - light, though
he may be quite fat to look at, could be
quite fat because of the gas, you see
and he could suddenly thin down also; He may
be thin or maybe - Mere saath to bahut hota hai.
Sometimes in one day, I may look very much
thinned out, I mean, it happens really actually,
My blouses, you see, suddenly become so tight,
if there is a Puja - even I can't take out the blouse
and can thin down absolutely, you see.
Same day if you take My photograph,
you'll find two dimensions in My body
because of the vaayu, see the prana vaayu
in My this thing. Now, this is one point, that
we have to study the combinations in a person.
So now, in our vibratory awareness, we should
find out what is his side - left or right
so, we scan it first of all - alright? That's
very simple to find out whether left or right
If he's in the center, the vibrations will be
flowing nicely, then he will be not so sick.
Maybe, he might appear to be bloated
or fat, but that's not a problem
because according to doctors, a man who's
fat, is sick, a man who is thin,
is perfectly alright - is not true. All
the gods and goddesses are all fat people
even if they want. I mean, even if I lose
weight, anything, I can't go down very much
because, you see, the water and the air
always compose the, surrounds the chakras
and so the person, the more who will expand
- even if you are thin, gradually will find
there will be expansion on the and they
will become heavier - all these chakras
because they are to be protected because the
more they start working it out, you'll see that
but you can reduce it because gas can be
taken out of your body. So, for people, now
we have decided, now there are three types. So,
for the first type of people, who are, say,
left-sided, the thing is that they
should be asked to put their
raise their right and put down
their left.
So, but the hand that is to be towards
the photograph, should be left;
With the right hand you just take it out -
like that. The hand that has to use it,
is your own hand - raising your own power
- you see and taking it out, the Grace,
down below towards the photograph. Now,
then you are going to take vibrations
from the photograph is a left-sided person,
put the left hand towards the photograph,
left hand and right hand upward. Alright?
It's clear-cut now.
- Yes, Shri Mataji
- Even bandhan should be given that way
- 108 times it should be.
- Just one more
Oh, let's see the left-sided problems, left
sided. First is the inactivity of the organs.
Inactivity of the organs, you see, that
causes
allergies, lethargy
- virus infection
- Annh?
- Virus infection
- What is? Virus infection. Woh to instant hota hai
- aakarke jaata hai
- but some like cold and all
Haan, but now, this we can say
basically but when it is triggered,
these left-sided people when triggered,
then the, what happens actually,
the left is controlled with the whole -
that's a difference between the two.
Once it is inactive, alright, your, say, your
liver is inactive. Till then if it is inactive,
you'll have these troubles like that.
Then when it is triggered
- it has been lethargic for so much time
- is triggered by some spirit,
then the same liver will become
cirrhosis of liver or cancer of liver
because suddenly from that sluggishness,
you see, all you're taken charge of others.
That's the main thing you can say. The
spirit comes in and takes charge
So such left-sided people can get
liver disease very easily?
- Any disease.
- Hepatitis
- Annh?
- Hepatitis, cirrhosis and cancer
- Cancer, mellitus
- because if Ultimate is true, Shri Mataji
but although in this country
[UNCLEAR] but yet
cirrhosis of the liver is common in India
and we don't really not know the cause of it
and they put Malaysia [UNCLEAR]. Probably,
India is on the left side itself
- Indians are left-sided
- so when they get triggered all that is serious
left-sided - Indians are very left-sided.
They are left-sided by nature.
See, drinking is an artificial left
sidedness because they are so egoistical
that they cannot fully face their
ego, so then they drink, you know,
so that they go to the left side.
It's an artificial left-sidedness;
- Drinking is artificial left-sidedness
- That is true.
But Indians on the whole are fate
- believe in fate, for getting it
- kismat hai
- Kismat hai but I would say,
Indians are more in the center because
they don't sit down and cry and weep.
They'll all say, "Doesn't matter, it's your fate."
But I would say, they're more in the center,
not so much left-sided but cirrhosis of
liver is caused, I tell you why.
They have lethargic liver among
people who take things like -
you can say, to make it lethargic is
vegetarian food. Vegetarian food can cause
- Vegetables are all in the left, annh?
- They're left sided
- [UNCLEAR]
- Vegetables are left-sided, you see
and that can cause constipation, too much
of, too much of, I mean, you have diarrhoeas
and things like that; They can be
very left-sided these vegetarians are.
They also have bloated stomachs -
vegetarian food
Bloated stomachs and they eat
too much rice
Usse beri-beri jaisi bimaari ho jaati hai,
you see, so that, but rice also, if it is
just carbohydrates, is alright but starch
and vegetables - they eat lot of starch -
Potatoes, starch and vegetables - all
these things cause lethargy
- Yes, true
- to the left side, you have to get to the protein
- Protein ka digestion kaun karta hai?
- Protein digestion - it starts in the
stomach and then
- Annh?
- starts off in the stomach and it carries
on in the, in the small intestine
- and the liver karta hai carbohydrates?
- Yes. Liver has no part in protein digestion
Annh? Nahin, nahin matlab par yeh hai ki
carbohydrates jo hain, that's the food
for liver - no doubt.
- Haan, liver handles that
- You see so, though it doesn't play part
in digestion but it uses the carbohydrates
in the body.
Yes. Liver, You see, Shri Mataji, the liver is
the only organ in the body that will burn fat
- That burns fat?
- Haan, the only organ in the body
that can burn fat.
It is the only organ in the body that
can produce carbohydrate.
- [UNCLEAR] produces?
- Produces, from fat, You see and thus
it stores carbohydrate
and the way it burns fat - it reduces
the carbohydrates
- Into?
- in the cycle - the citric acid cycle
Haan, it transforms it, also removes the
[UNCLEAR - OIL?] but now,
if you take the cirrhosis case in India,
it is because of eating fats,
you can say. Always you'll find a
vegetarian suffering from a liver trouble
because carbohydrates
ka kaam saara karna padta hai usse
kyonki they eat nothing but starch -
chawal aur these things
- Potatoes
- Potatoes, this thing, that thing and liver
is sustained too much, I mean, is
given too much food - sort of thing
- The rest of the body will starve
- Starve but liver is also starved.
If you eat too much of these things,
liver then will be starved.
If you give sugar to the liver, then
also liver will become lethargic.
I mean, if you want to reduce the activity
of the liver, then you take sugar
or carbohydrates - you follow My point -
but if you take too many
carbohydrates already all the time,
then your liver will not function.
Main thing liver needs, Shri Mataji, is
protein because liver is pure protein
- and the structure of the liver is based on protein
- and if you don't have protein in your food,
- the liver will become lethargic
- Weak [UNCLEAR]
Weak and lethargic. When it becomes weak, then
you get cirrhosis - you understand My point.
- Yes, I understand perfectly.
- Vegetable bhi kya, carbohydrates bahut
hota hai na
[UNCLEAR] usme carbohydrate hota hai,
chawal khayeinge, they'll have rotis
- but they'll not have proteins
- No
that is why the liver is not sustained -
do you follow My point?
and the same thing I happened to be [UNCLEAR]
diet because they are eating that sort of diet
- and so they're becoming lethargic
- No, but first they were over-active,
their liver was over-active that's why I
said but now they should not. They can have
now introduce some chicken and things;
Chicken is alright?
- They have introduced some - haan
- Chicken and lamb you can introduce - alright
So now we have these - one side is say, liver
or anything; On the left side now - cancer.
Which one should we come to now?
Liver to ho gaya Swadhishthan chakra -
Mooladhar - let us start with Mooladhar.
Now, left sided Mooladhara - impotency -
- maane - inactive
- Hmm. Impotency, lack of interest
Lack of interest in sex
and too much activity on the right hand
side, can also become impotency, you see.
If a person is over-active in early age,
he can become impotent -
- it's a result of that, as a result of over-activity
- [UNCLEAR] Sun, Mother
- Haan, it's like that [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR]
- Yeah, that's it, that's it
- Usually, the non-realized person,
they cannot increase the energy in the
sympathetic. Whatever energy he has,
that we have.
That he will decrease and he'll exhaust
it, naturally because he'll exhaust his
sympathetic energy, so this thing.
Now for that, left side all of them, you
can use fire and you can use candle
though it emits heat; Even the bhoots
emit heat, tremendous heat they can emit.
- What about copper, Shri Mataji?
- Annh?
- The left side people - copper
- Copper should be good for them
- They can eat from copper utensil
Copper or gold. You see, if you burn gold,
say, you see, stone as we heat, is good for them.
If they take, also for them raksha
- raakh - in the body, raakh or gheru
all that [UNCLEAR] things. Like gheru - you
know what is a gheru, is calcium. [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] it's for children, calcium.
- The gheru is what you get
Now children calcium. Left sided people
use these - the children calcium - gheru
Then bhasma is [UNCLEAR], you see
if you say, on Her photograph or you take
it from My yagya, you see, that is for
- the instance you have Herpes
- What are it's use [UNCLEAR] other that is
- like bhasma
- in My photo, in front of My photograph
- Yes, I used to light that on
- Yes, that could be used - yes, that could be used
from these energy conditions, you see
- that could be used.
- I used to find [UNCLEAR]
- Gheru you can use. Gheru,
- what is gheru in English language?
- It's mud, it's like the earth which we use
- It comes under muds from
- Remember the Mahashivratri puja in Delhi [UNCLEAR]
I have applied, reddish color I've applied
so that is good for the left side.
Now for the, now left Mooladhara is
best taken out, left Mooladhara,
is by heating some fire - charcoal
and put some ajwain on top of it and
have a seat which has got a perforated top
- Haan and sit on that
- and sit on that. Keep it on ground and in India, you see,
people can sit like this, jaise [UNCLEAR]
karne baithte hain -
aise isme bilkul tatta baandh lo.
In the tawa you put
- charcoal
- charcoal, in that you put ajwain
and just sit on that and take it - that's
the best for left Mooladhara,
for left Mooladhara - alright?
Did you get My point?
Then, the combinations of
left Mooladhara.
[UNCLEAR] are the causes - let's see
the causes - left Mooladhara.
You can say first the over-activity,
secondly, it may be lack of interest
from liver over-heating. Third will be,
too much conditioning. Fourth will be
- black magic and all of this
- Absolutely. Black magic
- Spiritualism
- Spirit or some sort of a thing like,
Buddhism, some people call it -
they might be [UNCLEAR - PICKED UP?]
because then, you see, they take them
to asceticism. Asceticism takes you away
as lack of interest - you can have it. So
many gurus can do it; Rajneesh does that.
He does. What is it that, he puts the Mooladhara
absolutely into inactivity and talks of sex.
- He excites it
- No, he doesn't excite - he cannot excite it, I think
What he does - he talks of sex and people
cannot have any sex, so it's a frustration -
it means a frustration and a kind of a
inferiority complex may be developed.
I see as far you are blasphemous
the Mooladhara is.
- Hunh?
- If you speak blasphemy the Mooladhara chakra
- It catches very much if you are, I mean, sane
- [UNCLEAR] anywhere
No, I mean, if you say something about the
chastity of Mother [UNCLEAR];
That is a point, one should be very careful
- now suspect the chastity of Mother;
- That displeases Ganesha very much
- Of course and that will be in religion, the mahapaap
- Mahapaap
- Parampaap
Parampaap. That's worse than killing your
own mother - it is mahapaap;
Uska koi prayashchit nahin hai
- martyrdom.
And also, you see, saying, 'No'
[UNCLEAR] for
ashleel jisko bolte hain - vulgar -
in the presence of Mother
- Haan, in the presence but of course not true
- Inauspicious. Even describing something
before saying, you must be on Mother, many
a times that this is a very vulgar word
which will not be [UNCLEAR] tell you
because they have to tell you but
ten times it should be to ask forgiveness and
all that and then it's alright but otherwise
just to come out with a vulgar word that
he said like this or that is not good.
See the, in the protocol of the Mother,
is very bad - it's very sensitive.
Then it could come with a people or with
a woman who's possessed.
- A man who's possessed
- A man or a woman who's over-aggressive.
Can it come from a possessed mother
or someone that we have?
Mother se nahin. Not coming from the
Mother; Mother is higher.
This position, at this position,
it is a woman and
the perversions, you see, in life -
perversions in life it is
because perversions is nothing but over-activity
and then it results in the inactivity.
Mellitus is, I've seen Shri Mataji, is
tends to be right sided sexual activity.
No, when it is active perversion activity,
can result, results definitely into this.
See, perverted activity is right-sided
alright but it, from there it results
- in the left Mooladhara
- in the left
- and then it becomes a habit.
- But what I've seen [UNCLEAR]
Then it becomes just a habit. It's, there is no
self satiety as such but is a matter of habit.
- That is true.
- [UNCLEAR CONVERSATION]
- but it involves that
- Annh?
- But it starts in the right
Swadhishthana, I mean to say.
Starts in the right but ends up there on
[UNCLEAR]
I've seen the curve. It takes a curve
from right Swadhishthana and then curves
into Left Mooladhara.
- Hmm
- so it's very, You see, what I've seen,
it weakens there
- I don't know how it works but it goes like that.
- Anything will weaken if it has a pressure on it
See, there are all kinds of things which
are nonsensical, you see and they naturally
- will be weakened, isn't it?
- That's right.
Naturally, I mean, [UNCLEAR], abuse, it's
an abuse. You see, perversion is nothing
but an abuse nonsense, you see, then it
becomes a weak and a weak Mooladhara
is very dangerous because with
a weak Mooladhara,
you can get so many diseases of
muscles. This is multiple
- Achcha polymyositis,
- All this
[UNCLEAR], myasthenia gravis, all these.
All these polymyositis no one can
understand, Shri Mataji
Muscle ka jo, muscle ka ek guna hota hai
Stithisthapakta. English have removed it all
that it goes back to it's own position
sthitisthapaka - flexibility
- Haan haan, elasticity
- Elasticity you can say. Now which it stands up
see, the projections of the hand and all
that. All these positions are done
through the power of Shri Ganesh.
That is His power.
- So then what happens, that is lost
- Hmm, muscle becomes
- muscle becomes - what you call that?
- [UNCLEAR] stone - flabby
Flabby - it cannot raise your legs, see.
It loses it's elasticity
- and heaviness can come
- In Hindi, in Sanskrit better word is, sthitisthapak.
Sthitisthapak - it makes your state, establishes
your state - whichever state you want to be.
- That's right! Sthitisthapak
- Sthitisthapak. Stithisthapak, so, that is lost
and that's why Shri Ganesha then [UNCLEAR]
all these troubles of the muscles,
whatever you call them.
- I don't know whatever you call them [UNCLEAR]
- Polymyositis, Myasthena Graves,
- [UNCLEAR] muscle disease, that is Polymyalgia
- Achcha you don't [UNCLEAR]
- [UNCLEAR] names [UNCLEAR]
- That's very true. That's why I'm at a loss Myself
- [UNCLEAR] they're whole Latin and French
- Yes, lot of them, so the basis is
one of the chakras has to be Mooladhar.
So, in any one of these disease, first give
a bandhan with the candle to the Mooladhara,
just and Mahaganesha, Ganesha Atharwasheesha
You'll be amazed immediately they'll start
raising their feet.
Can we work on this area Mother
with the candle? [UNCLEAR]
That second time because, you see,
it can work out anywhere -
so the main point is there. Then it could
be at the, at the point, where we can say,
the Swadhishthana point, could be at
Vishuddhi point or could be at Agnya point
but first is that. First is Shri Ganesha. Then you
must backup Shri Ganesh with other combinations.
You can feel it on your hands also but
some people don't feel Ganesha at all.
You see, for example, to feel Ganesha,
you have to be sensitive for Ganesha.
Like, those who have been hurt more on
Ganesha, in any way, can feel Ganesha fast.
Indians don't feel Ganesha so much;
Ganesha's chakra they don't feel so much.
people n the West [UNCLEAR].
That's why their Ganesha is so
strong with [UNCLEAR]
- It's a sore point, bataya na.
- Hmm, sensitive
It's a sore point, it is hurt already, so
they feel it much.
[UNCLEAR] after all Left Swadhishthan
- you have a Left Swadhishthan.
- First thing you'll feel is the Left Swadhishthan.
- Always, maybe
Anybody will have Left Swadhishthana wisdom,
will come out with Left Swadhishthana first
though that person may not be having
Left Swadhishthana so strong
but even the slightest thing because
he's hurt Left Swadhishthana will feel it.
So, in judging a person, you must
always keep your chakras,
which are permanently there, in view.
Alright, so this is, these all muscular
troubles come from there.
Shri Mataji, one thing that, a lot of
these muscular troubles
do they happen in children, they start in
children because of some poorva.....
See, poorva janmas of course are
there and children also
you see, the sanskaras of parents, very
important. Parents are very important
at the time the child is to be born.
What sort of parents they have,
what kind of life they lead.
- Supposing, a father goes to a prostitute
- Then the whole marriage is destroyed
That's it. You see, the mother is, say, flirts
with another man when she's pregnant.
That time it's a question of complete
purity, otherwise child is affected.
Then naturally, it happens naturally,
atmosphere.
You see, if supposing, mother is pregnant
and - here it is so common.
They're least bothered about the
auspiciousness - a pregnant mother will
- Smoke
- Smoke - not only smoke - they go to
parties, flirt with other men, do all these
sorts of a dirty things and all that and
see, that kind of [UNCLEAR] here.
Also, there are some others who don't
understand how to deal with the children
as far as the sex is concerning. They're
very, can be very aggressive also
with the children how to handle the sex
carefully, you see, when they're washing,
- bathing and all that. They can become
- Achcha, haan
- so the very
- rough
rough handling of the child can cause
- rough handling of the child.
No that happens and we see that happens
specially in this country, Shri Mataji,
where it produces a type of adult
disease, phimosis, You see
and where the skin gets
all constricted. Very common in India,
very common in India but in New Jersey
it's very rare to find.
In India, you see, even if you are poor,
as far as children are concerned,
you're trained very well how to handle
the child and all. Very auspiciousness,
is the main point na, that's the thing; It
is deeper - that affects more the chakra of
- Mooladhara because it is auspiciousness
- hmm, mangal.
This is the chakra of auspiciousness, so it
affects, you see. Even if your mind is dirty,
you're pregnant and you have dirty thoughts,
it affects; Is the question of auspiciousness
which people don't understand in the West
at all. Auspiciousness is lost in it.
[UNCLEAR] told me Mother,
to start to understand it.
India, for Mooladhara, is first class. You
see, sit on the ground, Mother India
She sucks in, She's very pure that way.
For that, that is the best. India is best
for Mooladhara, no doubt. There's nothing
better than that because you have the
Kundalini itself is. That way She clears you
of the Mooladhara. Specially in Maharashtra,
I think, the Maharashtra bhumi is really
beautiful and you know people take their
in that mud. In India on the river they'll
go, get some mud, put it to their body
and jump in the water for their bath -
finished - they're true. No one smells.
How many Indians smell. You see, this smelling
business is only special of Western people.
I used to notice that Shri Mataji. In India,
sometimes, You see, I mean for one week
or ten days, if we are travelling, we don't
bathe but I never used to smell. Here even
- we bathe twice a day, isn't [UNCLEAR]
- Just see! This place is a, I don't know
what is the reason but it is comes
from Mother Earth na -
the fragrance comes from Mother Earth.
So, one of the things that form the
lethargy, this thing would be also
right side Mooladhara catching - you always
get bad smell come out
- Hmm, right Mooladhara
- Right, left but, you see, this funny smell
- in both the cases.
- I know how it smells like a sick smell
- Hmm
- tangy smell. I used to notice it a lot here
And from the left sided [UNCLEAR],
you see,
I think, Mooladhara you can get children
which are not, will be loyal or something
you see, because, if the left side is
caught up, you might get children with
mental problems also - left side is
caught up - left Mooladhara is caught up.
We'll say, it's special of mind, you see,
is the base of the mind.
- Manas
- Manas - the whole manas starts from there
- Epilepsy in children
- Yes, epilepsy in children
even you can get if your Mooladhara
is not, it'll be, if you're having